ASIA includes 50 countries, and it is the most populated continent, the 60% of the total population of the Earth live here.
Asia is the world's largest continent of the seven continents in size and population
Asia covers one-third of earth's surface
It has 30 per cent of world land area and 60 per cent of population
It contains the world's largest country, Russia, and the world's two most populous countries, China and India
Asia houses the highest point on earth - the summit of Mount Everest, which is 29,028 ft. (8,848 m) tall
The continent is home to the 10 highest peaks in the world


AFRICA comprises 54 countries. It is the hottest continent and home of the world's largest desert, the Sahara, occupying the 25% of the total area of Africa.
Of the seven continents of the world, Africa is the second largest
The continents terrain was inhabitable and remained unknown for thousands of years, earning it the name of 'Dark Continent'
The world's longest river -- the Nile -- and the world's largest desert -- the Sahara -- both are home in Africa
The world's hottest place -- Ethiopia -- is in Africa
The equator passes through the middle of the Dark Continent and it receives direct sunlight throughout the year.

AUSTRALIA includes 14 countries. It is the least populated continent after Antarctica, only 0.2% of the total Earth population live here.
Australia is the world's smallest continent and is also known as an 'island continent' as it is surrounded by water on all sides
The official name of Australia is the Commonwealth of Australia
The continent of Australia is often called Sahul, Australinea or Meganesia to differentiate it from the country of Australia
Australia lies entirely on the south of the equator and if often called the country "down under"
The name Australia comes from the Latin word 'australis' meaning 'southern'.

ANTARCTICA is the coldest continent in the world, completely covered with ice. There are no permanent inhabitants, except of scientists maintaining research stations in AntarcticaAntarctica is not only the coldest place on Earth but also the highest, driest, windiest and emptiest
75 per cent of the world's ice and 70 per cent of the Earth's fresh water is located in Antarctica
It is also called the White Continent or the Frozen Continent
Before 1840, Antarctic was called 'Terra Australis Incognita' which meant 'the unknown southern land'
Antarctica sees half a year of light and half a year of complete darkness - summer months of December to February give 24 hours of light, while the winter months of late March to late September are pitch dark the whole day

EUROPE comprises 51 countries. It is the most developed economically continent with the European Union as the biggest economic and political union in the world.
Europe and Asia are parts of the same major landmass -- Europe is separated from Asia by the Ural mountains and the Caspian Sea
The highest mountain in this continent is Mt. Elbrus
The Balkan ranges, Pyrenees, Apennines, Cantabrian, and the Dinaric Alps are some of the major mountains in Europe
Europe is surrounded by water on three sides -- Mediterranean Sea in the south, Atlantic Ocean in the west, and Arctic Ocean in the north
The world's smallest country, the Vatican City, is in Europe

NORTH AMERICA includes 23 countries led by the USA as the largest economy in the world.
North America has five time zones and is the only continent with every type of climate
North America was named after the explorer Americo Vespucci and is also known as the "New World"
Of the seven continents of the world, North America's population density at 22.9 per square kilometre is the highest
The largest fresh water lake in the world -- Lake Superior - is located in this continent
The world's third longest river - the Mississippi (3778 km) - is located in North America
When compared with the other continents, North America has the highest average per-person income


SOUTH AMERICA comprises 12 countries. Here is located the largest forest, the Amazon rainforest, which covers 30% of the South America total area.
The world's largest river as per water volume and the second longest (6440 km) -- the Amazon -- is in South America
This continent houses the world's highest waterfalls -- the Angel Falls
The world's largest snake and the second longest -- the green anaconda -- also resides in South America
The highest volcanoes of the world -- Mt. Cotopaxi and Mt. Chimborazo -- are found on this continent
Brazil, the country which is the largest coffee producer in the world, is in South America





